We're going to take a look at the all important IAM
policies and take a look at the basics.
This is really kind of a lifelong endeavor with AWS,
getting used to defining policies, applying them to users,
groups and resources, and generally learning with experience,
what works, what doesn't work in your environment.
So let's start off by looking at some of the rules for a policy.
Number one, they are set up to deny by default.
There is no holes allowed.
The humans, that is you and I, have to allow the holes that we want.
A policy is going to list the permissions to allow or deny and these
are explicit permissions for accessing the resources.
Now the logic for a policy to function is starting off
with explicit deny or explicit allow.
Those are the two mainstays of our policies,
however, we could also have an implicit deny as well.
Now what the implicit deny means is that if you don't
explicitly grant access to the resource,
then it's implicitly denied, it's without question,
you don't have access.
So we don't have any shortcuts in the security setup of a policy.
If it's not stated, if it's not defined, it's not possible.
Now if a conflict is created during the evaluation of the policy,
because there could be many statements in the policy,
the most restrictive policy is going to win.
An explicit deny is going to trump all allows.
Policies can be attached to either the user,
a group of users, a role, or a resource,
and we'll have some examples of these upcoming in this clip.
So to have a graphic view of this, I've got a user,
or a group, or a role, so when the policy is evaluating,
are you a user?
Are you a group member?
Is this policy attached to a role?
Is there an explicit permission or will you be denied because there is not?
Or you will be allowed because there is an explicit permission
or permissions allowing you to do the task.
So for example, user Tom or group of developers,
in this case Dev, or an EC2 instance can be controlled by a defined policy,
once attached to the user, the group or the role.
We also can have the resources involved,
meaning that the policy, for example,
is going to be conditional on the address range that you
may be connecting to the resource at AWS.
And if you're within the defined address range, you might be allowed or denied.
So if the address range matches, you're allowed.
The evaluation logic is an interesting scenario when
evaluating the policies at AWS.
Best practice: Follow the least-privilege principle.
Give the users, groups, and roles the minimum.
So living by the least privilege, I can't really stress it enough.
Grant permissions that are required, start with the absolute minimum.
Alright let's take a look at some of the aspects of the IAM
policies and let's create an IAM policy and see how we can
utilize this powerful feature.
In this demo we're going to take a look at blocking requests
that aren't from an approved IP address range,
so when the request for Amazon services comes
outside a specific IP address range, you're not getting in.
Why would I want to do that?
Well at Wired Brain Coffee I have some pretty good administrators,
but they're getting a little lazy,
they're logging on to do administration from any computer system,
and I want to limit them to the range of their systems.
So that's what we're going to take a look at,
we're going to create a JSON policy and apply it to the admin
group to ensure we have this protection.
I'm saving them from themselves.
So to start off,
the first thing in a policy is a big complicated left
bracket saying there's more to come.
Alright I've got my left bracket to start the process, what's next?
Well a version number.
This is the latest version number for policies for AWS and this will
change over time as more features are added to the policy,
but this is the version number that we need right now.
Next we're going to make a statement and the statement is deny.
No surprise there.
Well deny what?
Deny any action, note the asterisk, to any resource,
again note the asterisk, the condition,
if it's not from this approved IP address range,
172.
0.
2.
0 to 172.
0.
2.
20, forget about it, ending off with three right brackets.
Why three?
Well we'll take a look at that.
And then finally ending off with okay I'm done, not that bad was it?
So let's look at those brackets.
First of all, the opening and closing brackets, they're in red.
I open, I close.
I've got to put my hands together.
What's in my hands?
My JSON policy.
Now take a look at the left brackets.
Note there's three of them.
TO the right of statement, to the right of condition,
to the right of NotIpAddress.
I've got three left brackets, got to have three right brackets,
so it's all balanced.
Any of those options are missing, no version,
no proper brackets no proper syntax, you won't be happy,
but that's part of creating policies, it's going to happen.
So let's go put this into place.
Okay I've saved some time, I've logged into the console.
Let's head into IAM and see what we have in this account.
Well we have a group and let's go into the group and we
can see we have a number of policies, I want to attach a policy,
but I'm creating one, I don't want one of the managed policies,
so I'm going to go over to Policies and say Create
Policy and select Create your Own Policy.
That's what I want.
Policy Name, Description, Policy Document, add it in, and create my policy.
Well before that let's validate it.
The policy is valid, great, let's create it.
So at the policy listing,
let's switch all types to Customer Managed and we can see the
Block_IP and the Policy Actions are going to attach to the
admin user or to the wiredadmin.
I think we want to do it to the group, so clicking Attach Policy,
it's been attached.
So we're all good to go.
Now I'm protecting my administrators from themselves.
I'm adding a layer of protection, in all seriousness,
so they do administration from the IP address range that I want them to use.
So that's a look at IAM policy creation and attaching the policy at the group level.